Jesus taught us that Satan is the father of the lie.
We recall that he deceived Eve a perfect woman.
He lied about our precious Jehovah.
Now you're familiar with many of you with Revelation chapter 12, invite you to find that
Revelation chapter 12.
And in this chapter, verses 7 and 8, address the fact that the war broke out in heaven,
but notice after they're kicked out of heaven, in verse 9, we read, so down the great dragon
was hurled, the original serpent, the one called devil and Satan, who is misleading the entire
inhabited earth.
He was hurled down to the earth and his angels were hurled down with him.
Now I read it that way specifically, but see what it doesn't say is, in the middle part
of verse 9, Satan, who's trying to mislead the entire inhabited earth, no.
He is misleading the entire inhabited earth.
That's crucial to understand when we think about the theme of this talk, not to be misled
by imitation peace, because as the rule of the world, that's what he's out to do is mislead.
In fact, an interesting point here, in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, to appreciate how he
goes about misleading, or at least it's addressed here to serve as a good warning for us.
An interesting point with the revision of the New World translation, for those of you
in the truth before 2013, when it was revised, you'll remember this, we'd see verse 14,
2 Corinthians chapter 11, and no wonder for Satan himself keeps disguising himself as
an angel of light.
Now the New World translation used to say before the revision transforms himself into an angel
of light.
Well, the very English word metamorphosis, like for a caterpillar transforming into a
beautiful butterfly, that's where it comes from the Greek language.
And that word was not in verse 14, no.
Because Satan can't transform himself into an angel of light, so it's an improved translation,
but he does disguise, he's a masquerader, and he does that with the subject of peace.
His world offers a sort of peace, but it's imitation peace.
Now, Jesus has distinguished, though, with the peace that he gives, and if you'll follow
long here in John, in chapter 14, he himself explains it to us, and we treasure the
gospel accounts, verse 27, I leave you peace.
I give you my peace.
I do not give it to you the way the world gives it.
Do not let your hearts be troubled, nor let them shrink out of fear.
So Jesus gives us his peace, and the peace that Jesus gives us, it's this inner calm,
once you know the truth, and Jesus gives us the peace.
We have this confidence that he loves us, Jehovah loves us, that we enjoy a good, peaceful
relationship with them, and a good conscience.
And we look forward to the kingdom removing all war and death.
Now, point to make here, Satan wants us to trade the peace that Jesus gives for his
imitation peace that he has advertised in the world.
Now in this talk, we will consider three forms of imitation peace, and why the peace that
Jesus gives is superior.
The first one has to do with material things, how they'll not bring true peace, and to
help us with that, it's turned to Matthew chapter 4, and we'll be referring to this chapter
throughout this particular talk about, not being misled by imitation peace, and this
one connected with material things, how they don't bring true peace in the example Jesus
sets for us here.
So Matthew chapter 4, then Jesus was led by the Spirit up into the wilderness to be tempted
by the devil.
After he had fasted for forty days and forty nights, he felt hungry.
In the tempter approached and said to him, if you are a son of God, tell these stones
to become loaves of bread.
But he answered, it is written, man must live not on bread alone, but on every word that
comes from Jehovah's mouth, that a beautiful rebuttal, see Jesus refused to trade his peace
for material things, and in this case bread, even though he was hungry.
So serving Jehovah was more important to him than material things, see, and in the world
they have this thinking about, well, you need a certain amount of money to retire and
they're constantly focused on material things, not Jesus, see, superior peace from Jehovah
God.
So it's only temporary anyway that the material benefits that people seek and pursue throughout
their lives.
Now we can enjoy true contentment because Jehovah God is going to care for us.
We know that many have personal experiences to prove that.
So in the following video, see what a brother learned about the so-called peace the world
promises.
As a family, we were doing very well spiritually.
We did family worship, preaching, and going to the meetings together.
After some time, we began to encounter financial problems.
At times, we did not even have money to buy food for each day.
Many people in our area were going to South Africa to provide basic needs for their families.
So I decided to go as well, leaving behind my wife to take care of our seven children.
This affected me spiritually because I did not know the language, I was unable to preach,
and I did not benefit from the meetings.
Being so far from my family caused me to neglect my responsibility as a family head.
As a result, my family grew weak spiritually, and we all missed each other very much.
I realized that I had made a wrong decision going abroad.
My conscience started to trouble me greatly.
Then I remembered the example of Barak, founded Jeremiah chapter 45, verse 5.
Barak may have wanted to pursue material riches as I had.
When he was helped, he returned.
I decided then to put Jehovah in first place instead of searching for material things.
So I started to make changes to go home and help my family spiritually.
When I left South Africa and reached the border of Malawi, after leaving my family for about six months,
I felt great happiness in my heart, and I am still happy till now.
Studying the Bible has helped me.
We still encounter financial problems, but I remember that in Satan's world,
there is no way we can go and have no problems.
Now I serve as an elder.
My family is progressing spiritually, and this makes me very happy
because my relationship with Jehovah is strong.
Yes, he learned a hard lesson.
He goes to South Africa, meetings are interrupted, no field service,
and then he remembers Barak, Secretary for Jeremiah,
and he returns to be with his family, putting the kingdom first,
and we appreciate him being truthful and sharing that experience.
That's imitation peace going after material things.
Now, this next is quite interesting, so pay close attention,
because there may be some listening that need this council.
Satan's world says that we can ignore Bible standards,
and we might need to ignore some of them to gain peace of mind.
Here's two examples that we're going to analyze in this talk.
A person may reason that marrying an unbeliever
or obtaining an unscriptural divorce will make life easier.
And they start reasoning.
I just want to get married, and he's an unbeliever,
but he's a nice person.
Things like that go on with the treacherous heart.
Again, we go to the example of our Lord and Master Jesus.
We're going to read verses five through seven of Matthew four.
Then the devil took him along into the holy city,
and he stationed him on the battlement of the temple,
and said to him, if you are a son of God,
throw yourself down for it is written.
He will give his angels a command concerning you,
and they will carry you on their hands
so that you may not strike your foot against a stone.
Jesus said to him, again, it is written,
you must not put your whole of your God to the test.
See, Jesus made that very clear.
He was going to be obedient to his father,
and wasn't going to worry about being testy
with such an experience as the devil proposed there.
So obedience.
See, Jesus twice in a moment will read another one.
It is written.
He sticks with the scriptures.
Jehovah's thinking, and he refused to disobey Jehovah.
Now, here's the question.
Why is the piece that Jesus gives superior
to the pursuit of unscriptural solutions to our problems?
Let that sink in.
Why is the piece that Jesus gives superior
to the pursuit of unscriptural solutions to our problems?
For example, marrying an unbeliever.
That will likely bring, and it has happened time after time,
bring that person greater pain
than the longing they felt when they were single.
I've personally seen that all too many times
in various congregations at the privilege to serve in.
You see, the other one is unscriptural divorce.
It often leads to immoral conduct.
It certainly leads to a troubled conscience,
emotional damage, and of course, a loss of privileges.
Now, this is very important to keep in mind
while it's true to imperfect individuals
married to each other.
Well, there's going to be difficulties.
There's going to be challenges.
But see, stop and think about this.
When you're having difficulties,
don't forget that marriage is a sacred arrangement.
The world totally has forgotten that.
So Jehovah will strengthen both to make a success.
Gotta keep that in mind.
Jehovah will strengthen and help so that you can succeed
because this is his sacred arrangement.
And the devil has been attacking the family arrangement
all through the last days of the system.
And he's intensifying it as he gets closer
to being thrown into the abyss.
Now, in the following video, notice
the results of pursuing imitation peace.
newly married life came with a lot of unexpected challenges.
You dream about the way your marriage will go,
but then the reality is quite different.
All we ever did was argue, or we wouldn't speak to one another.
We never ever went to the elders.
We just didn't want to bother them.
We just felt we needed to figure it out ourselves.
We decided if the household that we would separate.
The separation wasn't a good thing
because in some respects, it made things worse.
It did have an impact on the boys.
They started acting out.
They got into some trouble with the police one time.
And there was a loneliness because you've gotten married.
And now you don't have that, and you're by yourself.
And the same old routine went on
where you're cooking and cleaning and doing laundry and working.
I felt sick to my stomach.
I had a hard time getting up every morning
and facing the world.
At that point, I felt that I needed to have the elders help out a little bit.
I did pray for Jehovah's help to direct me.
And kept wondering why Jehovah wasn't really answering my prayers.
But I kind of realized now that it was because we were separated.
The expectations of the separation were not at all what I was thinking.
I reflected on the marriage vows.
One of the things I thought about was a sister in our congregation.
She was married to an unbeliever, and then she learned the truth.
And he was so violent.
He would beat her.
He would burn her books.
He would burn her clothes.
He did not allow her children to attend the meetings.
And I thought about the problems that Darryl and I had.
And I thought, well, Darryl's a kind person.
He's never done that.
And I thought, you know, this is something that we need to really work on.
We need to really put forth the effort to start applying Bible principles
to put Jehovah first in our life so that we can bring our marriage back into union with Jehovah.
I realized that it wasn't what I wanted.
It was what Jehovah wanted.
There was just no other choice.
But Jehovah wasn't going to bless us unless we got back together.
When we got back together, our marriage was still a work in progress.
You can't have a perfect marriage in this world, but you can sure make it better when
you put Jehovah first.
We enjoyed feelings towards each other.
I felt closer to Debi.
Debi and I have been married now 48 years.
Separation does not make anything better at all.
If you even have an inkling of love for one another, you want to work on that and you
want to make it bloom so that Jehovah can bless it.
The blessings have been endless.
Our children are all doing fantastic in the truth.
Jehovah said taste and see that it is good, so we've got to do that.
We really appreciated this couple sharing, the experience with the brotherhood.
He learned, you know, they're always arguing and it's all they did was argue, argue, argue.
It affected their children.
They decided to separate, finally have peace.
I don't have to be around her or I don't have to be around him.
Then he realized his relationship with Jehovah was being interfered with here and he went
to the elders.
His prayers were affected, things he noticed.
He was honest about that and our precious sister was so nice to honestly explain.
She said, what she learned was, this is not about me.
It's about Jehovah.
Well, you finally come to that realization, Jehovah will strengthen you to enjoy peace with
your marriage partner.
The next one, I never tire of speaking about this particular couple of verses or reading
about it or hearing another brother give the talk about it.
See, here's what's coming soon, that's here with me, the first testimonies, chapter
five and many of you are going, oh yeah, I know what he's going to read about.
This is one of the prophecies that is yet to be fulfilled.
So it's just invigorating to know that soon, here's what's going to happen.
First, that's alone in chapter five, verse two and three.
For you yourselves know very well that Jehovah's Day is coming exactly as a thief in the
night.
Whenever it is that they are saying peace and security, then sudden destruction is to
be instantly on them just like birth pains on a pregnant woman and they will by no means
escape.
Yes, Jehovah's Day, this has to do with the day, you don't break the Great Tribulation
Babel on the Great is destroyed and then Armageddon finishes it off in this context, that's
Jehovah's Day and what happens before that is this proclamation, peace and security, well
religious leaders being involved with the part of Satan system, that's very possible, we'll
have to wait and see, will it be one announcement or a series of announcements that we don't
know, but this is coming and those that are staying close to Jehovah and enjoying the
peace from him and his son Jesus will not be deceived by this imitation proclamation
of peace, imitation peace and again, back in Matthew chapter four, we're going to see
how Jesus handled this type of test from the devil and we learn from it here in verses
eight through eleven, Matthew chapter four, again the devil took him and verse eight, took
him along to an unusually high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world
and their glory and he said to him, all these things I will give you if you fall down
and do an act of worship to me, then Jesus said to him without hesitation, go away Satan
for it is written, it is Jehovah your God you must worship and it is to him alone you
must render sacred service, then the devil left him and look angels came and began to minister
to him see right away third time it is written Jesus was having nothing to do with this offer
of the kingdoms, this imitation peace you'll have all the glory and rule and it's always
boggle to my mind that this one who knew Jesus and his prehuman existence would have the
audacity to try to get him to bow down worship him shows you he's obviously insane now he
wouldn't allow either when they tried to make him an earthly king Jesus wasn't having any part
of that they were thinking he can bring him peace but Jesus there's no peace except by Jehovah's
way and the peace from God's kingdom is so superior to anything they could try to come up with their
imitation peace here's why think about this Jesus will remove the devil Jesus will remove human
rulership Jesus will remove sin so the earth's peace will never again be disturbed and I
appreciate very much that he's gonna get rid of all problems and that includes undoing all causes of
pain and not just physical pain emotional pain as well wonderful to look forward to that time
with that beautiful peace from our precious father Jehovah and his son Jesus now in the following video
see what convinced the sister not to believe the world's promises of peace my father
always taught me that we need a God in our life in order for there to be peace and he always wanted to
know can Christians go to war how is this consistent with the gospel of Jesus Christ but the pastor
could never give us an answer and so I thought I'd have to look to politics to find it a lot of
peace movements were being formed at that time so I joined one of them we decided where the protest
marches would be which pamphlets we would use but after the protests were over everyone was so
excited and they all started applauding and cheering for the leaders I thought that's not what I
wanted I don't want to honor people I want to have world peace and that still hasn't happened yet
then I started to feel very alone and it made me feel unsafe in this world with no peace inside
I thought what is the purpose of life while visiting friends for coffee I saw a man I'd never
met before my friends told me he wanted to talk to us about the Bible so I asked him sir what do you
think can Christians join the military and the man said no that's not allowed because the Bible
says you should love your enemy it made me think about what my father always said that when he
God to bring peace then a really nice lady came to my door and she had an orange book in her hand
and it said true peace and security after reading it I thought this is it this is the organization
that truly wants peace so I went to those involved in the peace movement
I told them that I believe that God will change this world into a beautiful earth where they'll be
true peace they all looked at me like I had lost my mind I was so happy with my new life I felt
like I was part of a family who truly cared about one another and really wanted peace with each
other Isaiah 14 verse 7 had a major impact on my life because there God promises a calm and peaceful
well wasn't that nice how she she learned she she looked to politics and protest for a world peace
obviously she was sincere but she'd learn that's all imitation peace true peace and security comes from
Jehovah God so
wrapping it up with these three different types of imitation peace that we've emphasized
we want to encourage you in these last minutes to safeguard the peace that Jesus has given you
in John chapter 14 you know this but want you to really focus on a particular point in verse 6
Jesus said to him I am the way and the truth and the life no one comes to the Father except through
me in that beautiful particularly want to emphasize Jesus is the truth we can trust all of his promises
he is the truth he's going to give his peace already has and to a greater extent
in the future yes our master is the truth and he gave the early Christians that peace
the things that they were able to deal with is his mind-boggling we read Apostle Paul's experiences
Peters and others the persecution they endured and they did it the enduring with joy
it's amazing they can only be a supernatural provision of peace and just to remember
Jesus will likewise give you the peace you need now to keep doing Jehovah's will and to make him happy
so brothers please safeguard the gift of peace that Jesus has given you now Satan uses this world to
offer you promises of imitation peace do not be misled now rather let the peace of the Christ
rule in your hearts and show yourselves thankful yes through his son Jehovah bless us all with peace forever